	In many dystopian novels, the protagonist outright revolts against the reigning power and is obviously in contention with it. David, however, has a much subtler relationship to the dystopian power in “The Chrysalids”. The dystopian power in the story is the idea of conformity and following the norm that God has allegedly set. David does not fight against this power or his dad who seems like the embodiment of it, but he doesn’t follow it without question either. He questions the power, leaving room for more discovery by him. Waknuk, the town he lives in, is an extremely religious town, where everybody follows the law of God, living things with even the slightest deformity get killed by the townspeople. Already, in the first few chapters, we see David going against this dystopian power and befriending a girl named Sophie who has six toes on each foot.(8) Later while binding his hand after a splinter, he mentions how having a third arm would be helpful.(26) His father sees this as a wish for a deformity and so he is punished.

	As David learns more about his society and what it means to be an Offence, he begins to question the dystopian power. His questioning of the power begins when he befriends Sophie. (8)Sophie has six toes, which the Waknuk villagers would see as an Offence in the eys of God and as such worthy of execution or exile. But instead of turning Sophie in, David accepts and befriends her. Even though he is well aware of the rules detailed in the Bible and Repetences he resists his old teachings and accepts Sophie. He starts to wonder whether or not the things his father has been telling him or true. Later, we see David mention that it would be useful to have three hands. Despite growing up in a household that absolutely rejects any sort of deformity he still suggests that it might be better if he were not to have only two hands. (26)Here, again, he is not fighting against his Dad or Waknuk. But instead, he is starting to question why the rules were put upon him and whether or not he would like to follow them. 

	David has a very unique relationship with this dystopian power. While most people in his world support it or fight against it, David, at least for now, merely questions it. In this essay, I have only shown two examples of this, but as the story progresses I’m sure we will start to see more. As more examples of him questioning the dystopian power come up I think we will start to learn more about him. But, because David is in sort of a middle ground, his decisions could go either way. He could fight against this dystopian power like the Fringe people or he could join his father and succumb to it. For now he merely questions it, but personally I think he’ll learn to fight against and resist it.
